欢迎回来，非常荣幸啊，世界顶尖科学家协会和字节跳动呢帮我联系到了黑洞第一张照片这个项目拍摄的首席科学家多勒曼教授啊，那么上一集呢我们已经跟他讨论了一些内容。这一集呢我们继续跟他来讨论更多关于黑洞关于望远镜关于宇宙学的知识。好，那么下面我们继续。😊🎼 So maybe let's get back a little bit back to the to the question that the spot around the black hole changing its position. And you said that it's more it's much like the behavior of hot gases around the black hole, right, but it seems to me, because the black hole is quite large. how to say its gravity is massive. So it seems to to me that maybe everything around the black hole should be quite uniform.if theum how would say the spotlight is changing its position, does it do to is it due to turbulent behavior of like in yes, this is yeah, this is exactly what it is, its turbulence, it's turbulent Okay, so so so so so when you see the the bright spot shifting.Yeah.That gas is still coming towards you but it's moving around a little bit as it comes towards you right so you're seeing sometimes it's over here sometimes it's moved a little bit over here but it's always coming to you that's why it's bright and you're seeing the turbulence of that.。Of that gas as it's moving around the black hole Oh, so it shows some some randomness in this behavior exactly that can totally explain my confusion I mean a black hole it's a very interesting place to study, but I would not want to be there I mean, it is just really hot and it's very turbulent it's it's one of the most energetic places in the universe So and talking about the movie.a black hole movie in the future. So do you think it's possible that in the future, we can have like movies of the black host like about the effect we see in science fiction movies.That clear or is it necessary yeah so I think this project that we're working on now it's called the next generation event horizonizon telescope I think the next generation event horizonizon telescope will get us as close to the event horizon as we are likely to come.。For for many, many years many, many years like 30, 40 years maybe well, maybe 10 years maybe 10 years until we go to space until we launch a space satellite which can help us make a telescope larger than the earth that would be the next step yes yes miss but you know the the interesting thing about science fiction is that.。they sometimes get it right and they sometimes don't get it right So we had this movie called Interstellar you know I like the wording know I love the movie too, but people fell into the black hole and there were bookcases in the movie and yeah love story in the movie so I'm not quite sure that all the effects that are shown in movies we will see with the Even horizonorizon Telescope but I can guarantee that we will see some extremely interesting things and that by studying the motions of.ro the black hole we will really turn them into laboratories through which we can understand fundamental physics.Well, that's very intriguing. Okay, yeah, I think I have done with the questions about black holes. maybe we we have still two more two more questions regarding the scientific research itself. I say what is a typical lifestyle like being a astrophysicist Well, first of all, it's a lot of fun because we're we're most of us are doing things that we love to do And so imagine waking up every day and thinking, how can I image a black hole.And that's your passion and then you get to do that for your job so it's really a wonderful job to do but we also take it very seriously and when I was younger.I did a lot of observing a telescope so so if you look at an astronomer's career it starts at the early stage where you're working extremely hard studying but also doing observations and taking some real chances because you really want to do something new right so you really want to test yourself and do something that's.That's you don't even know if it's possible or not.And then and so a lot of times I spent a telescopes working with colleagues, building instrumentation, making observations of the universe that nobody had ever done before, and that is an incredibly intoxicating feeling, I mean it's just it's wonderful to do that.Yeah。And then as you get later in your career then you start to build teams yeah so there's a saying that if you want to go fast go alone if you want to go far go together so if you want to do something like the ET you need to build a larger team so I spent a lot of my career building the team bringing us all together and and finding funding and support to build all the elements of it so on a day to day basis.I do a lot of meetings, but I also love to do science and one of the best things about the career is that you get to help younger.Yeah younger researchers and and it's very important for people to understand that it was the early career people it was the younger people that put a huge amount of passion a huge amount of energy into the Even horizonizon telescope project and it's it succeeded really largely because of all their energy so being able to work with them and the whole EHT team has really been the highlight of my career I got it so it sounds like in some way that being a leading scientist like where.In charge of the whole team is very much like a CEO of a company.You have to manage everything, right, So you have to like to recruit your members and to apply for funding sort of and convince a lot of people as well as entrepreneurship. sounds very much like to except that you have different objectives. Well, it it's interesting because.In astronomy, as is in many areas of academia, if you want to get a permanent position, you have to do something that is very certain.In other words, you want to make sure that you succeed, but some of the best.Projects are those for which success is not guaranteed you don't know if you were going to succeed so this has been one of those projects where early on I made a decision that even though it was not certain it would succeed.We really had to push we really had to put all of our energy behind it right and and it did it paid off right it didn't have to pay off it was no guarantees right but it did so.It is it is a little bit like being a CEO because you have to push even when yeah although although theoretically it's there, but it is possible that all kinds of how to say impacts can can how to say interfere with the result so it's still quite risky but this is the wonderful thing about it is being able to work when you have a good team and you build the right team then even if there are challenges you can overcome them so I tell my team.A lot of a lot of times that it's like we're jumping off a cliff and we're inventing a parachute on the way down you know you don't really know if you were going to succeed, but you're taking a good risk, you know and.And with this next generation instrument that we're building now to make a movie, we're so fortunate to have excellent people, so for example in China we're working very closely with the Shanghai Observatory and the researchers there and they're helping us design and plan the next generation instrument and we work with people all over the world so the nice thing about the Event Horizon Telescope is that it is not just an international collaboration but the telescope.Itself is the earth right so really in its bones, it is an international project that requires we all work together yes it is it is born internationally.Yeah, it's nature. exactly. exactly. It's very good to hear. You know that I really like your description, like jumping down from the cliff and building the parachute in the middle way. It's not, it's not for everybody. It's not. Yeah, that that sounds very, very, how to say moving and touching an heroic. And I really like that sentence. So and it actually leads to my next question is that so you're, you're talking about like.😊For the younger generation. And you know, among my audiences, my followers, and I know a lot of young people in China who are very interested in astronomy and cosmology. and maybe this is the last question. And do you have any suggestions for young people who want to seek a career in this field. Yeah, so well, first of all, of course, study and you know, learn all the basics. that's always important.But but also to get involved in research, I mean you can't learn everything from books right so it's very important that you learn how to do research.For problems where the answer is not known it's very difficult so some people are very good at learning from books and some people are good at doing research, but you have to definitely try to do something that has never been done before.And then I would say that you really have to learn how to fail, it's very important for young people not to be afraid of failure.Because every time you fail, you learn something about yourself and you learn something about the problem, you learn something about the world, so failure is something really to be embraced.Yeah and a lot of people don't understand quite how that works right but there's a saying fail early and fail often because you really want to learn a lot from your failures and then you can move ahead with the project and and then the other thing is to is to develop relationships with colleagues it's very important to learn how to work in a.Group and and to rely rely on teamwork and in the event horizoniz telescope, one thing that was very important for us to do.Was to analyze the data from different viewpoints. Yes, okay, let me summarize a little bit. The first, we have to learn learn knowledge and not only from the books, but also to like to do some independent study, you have to find out new things. And second to how Ill say to embrace failure. And, you know, in China that we always say that failure is the mother.Of success. that's a good way to put it. Yes, and or in America, we say the things doesn't kill you makes you stronger right I think there was actually Ntzsche who said that Ntzche Okay, okay, the third is teamwork. and I, I feel quite quite deeply about about teamwork and I think maybe in 21st century nowadays, the time of being a personal hero had passed. you know, maybe.Like10 years ago, I would say, a brilliant man like Einstein Heisenberg can achieve great things on their own. but I don't think in 21st century we can still do that.Okay, maybe just one more question. Are you, are you hiring PhD students always always, okay, yeah, maybe I can contact you later no No Okay, then okay, yeah, I think that's that's all the interview that we have to do today. So I would like to thank you again for joining us for this fantastic interview. Okay, my pleasure, my pleasure. my best in, in the future work to you too. good luck with all your, with your audience, yeah.😊Okay, and thanks to all the people that made the interview possible, Thank you very much yeah.这场访谈本来是30分钟啊，但是呢我跟多罗曼教授很开心的聊了快一个小时。黑洞确实呢是一个激动人心的领域。经过100年的探索，我们终于即将迎来黑洞研究的黄金年代，相信对于黑洞的理解，能够给我们很多关于我们这个宇宙更加深刻、更加本质的认知，让我们拭目以待。😊🎼
